+++
title = 'Project Update Calendar Project'
date = 2024-06-30T10:57:53+12:00
tags = ["CalendarProject"]
draft = false
+++

Link - https://github.com/BruceYoung19/GoogleCalendarScript

# Upskilling Log

What have I learned:
- Data structures
- - Arrays
- - Dates
- Google scripting
- Git commit
- Technical Documentation
- Should be keeping up with the time frame
- Git hub License

What I could have worked on:
- Git fork
- API

# Version Control

Version 1 - code.gs 
- only able to make events

Problem:
- This is not useable on a daily use.

Version 2 - Codev2.gs 

- Spreadsheet to make all the events
    - Creating a tag for the event
 STRUCTURE = [TAG] Event , startdate, enddate, description, code
    - This can work in a span of a timeframe creating with one line of code.
 e.g. 12/02/2024 - 15/02/2024 | only requires one row.

Problem:
- Currently, it is very hard to maintain:
    - always have to delete all the data in the spreadsheet every week.
    - not able to choose between making an independent event versus an event that lasts for the timeframe. Also, this is taking a very long time to complete the form and clear it.
    The spreadsheet will eventually reach a value past 256. This CRITICAL error will cause this problem.
    - too many inputs are required to run the script.

Version 3 - Currently stuck in the planning phase


# Progress

Beta 1: 20 Jun 2023
 - Able to create events for more than one day
 - Able to assign a color to the event
 - Able to send email to self after the script is executed

Beta 2: Upcoming 20 June 23 - 20 Jul 23
 - More efficient spreadsheet / User Friendly spreadsheet
 - Automated email has all daily email.
 - Code is more adaptable
 - Naming is better 
 
Beta 3: Jun 10 2024 - Upcoming
 - Creating HTML to make it as a form.
 - Not relying on spreadsheets

 Current bugs:
 - Email has a [object,object] - Currently not using how to get rid of this.
 - Checking the date for a leap year

