+++
title = 'Nix OS Review'
date = 2024-06-29T10:49:46+12:00
tags = ["Linux"]
draft = false
+++


Link - https://nixos.org/

I have been using NixOs for four months now, but I think it is time for a change. Currently, at this stage in my career, there is a lot to learn. However, the timeframe for each project has been shortened significantly. Therefore I will be changing to another Linux distribution very shortly.

### What I love about the NixOs:
Reproducibility, being able to copy over a configuration from git, and rebuilding with one simple command have made my life incredibly easy with maintenance.

	  Command: Nixos Rebuild

Also, I love the ability to rebuild on different machines and separate the configuration based on the user.  Adding to the configuration of using flakes and home-manager it is possible to perform the End User Computing Job in minutes with building the operating system of the computer.

Package management is very easy to maintain, NixOS allows the user to split packages amounts the configuration files. This can be done by using the following command:
	
    Command:  Nix-shell 

The benefit of this is to separate any clutter on the computer.  
Aliases are a way for Linux users to change a command to what a user performs. In NixOS, an Alias can be created using a nix file and also allow the use of bash script code natively as if it was integrated into the system. 

### What I did not like:
Amount of machines, I only use a laptop currently as my daily driver. So there is no requirement for it to be changed between different machines.  

Purpose, the main idea of the operating system is for it to be reproducible.  However, a new image of itself is generated every single time it has been rebuilt. This makes it difficult to do the following:
- Adding Packages
- Declaring Package manager

Syntax is quite confusing as a lot of the other configurations are formatted differently in all aspects, Code, and file hierarchy, structure. I have tried all of the above and yet my configuration never seems to work at all. 
Documentation was very hard to understand as going between the main documentation, Reddit, and YouTube gave me two different perspectives on the matter. 
 
 The Documentation seems very out of date in the sense that once someone found a way to do it. They would note it down, despite the number of formatting errors after following the wiki.  So Following Reddit and YouTube was the only way to learn again due to the popularity of NixOs. There was not much around. Last Reading through other people's configurations gave me a solid understanding of how to write the configuration. However, I would still run into the same syntax error every time. 

### What will I most likely change to:
Arch Linux.

Why am I going to Arch Linux?
- Documentation is easier to follow.
- I would rather learn Linux and how it works.
